# Certificate Signing Request

from [wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Certificate_signing_request)

In public key infrastructure (`PKI`) systems, a certificate signing request
(also `CSR` or certification request) is a message sent from an applicant to a
certificate authority in order to apply for a digital identity certificate. It
usually contains the public key for which the certificate should be issued,
identifying information (such as a domain name) and integrity protection
(e.g., a digital signature). The most common format for `CSR`s is the PKCS #10
specification and another is the Signed Public Key and Challenge SPKAC format
generated by some web browsers.

* consists of three main parts:
  1. the certification request information
  1. a signature algorithm identifier
  1. a digital signature on the certification request information.

## tl;dr
- make key pair
- include public key in CSR
- include identifying info, like domain name in CSR

## apple example
we create the CSR, send it off to Apple through our authorized iTunes Connect account.


## Create CSR Mac
To create a CSR file, follow the instructions below to create one using Keychain Access.

### Create a CSR file.
* Keychain Access.
* `Keychain Access > Certificate Assistant > Request a Certificate from a Certificate Authority`.

In the Certificate Information window, enter the following information:

* In the User Email Address field, enter your email address.
* In the Common Name field, create a name for your private key (e.g., John Doe Dev Key).
* The CA Email Address field should be left empty.
* In the "Request is" group, select the "Saved to disk" option.
* Click Continue within Keychain Access to complete the CSR generating process.
