# Python Symbol Table

from [here]

https://docs.python.org/3/library/symtable.html

Symbol tables are generated by the compiler from AST just before bytecode is
generated. The symbol table is responsible for calculating the scope of every
identifier in the code. symtable provides an interface to examine these tables.

and some claim python doesnt have a symbol table. wot

* https://stackoverflow.com/questions/9085450/symbol-table-in-python

## Variables in python

So far I've been using the term "variable" liberally. Just to be on the safe
side, let's clarify what is meant by variable in Python. Formally, Python
doesn't really have variables in the sense C has. Rather, Python has symbolic
names bound to objects:

```python
aa = [1, 2, 3]
bb = aa
aa[0] = 666
```

In this code, `aa` is a name bound to a list object. `bb` is a name bound to the
same object. The third line modifies the list through `aa`, and if we print out `bb`
we'll see the modified list as well.

Now, once this is understood, I will still use the term "variable" from time to
time since it's occasionally convenient and everybody's used to it anyway.

## namespaces

Generally speaking, a namespace (sometimes also called a context) is a naming
system for making names unique to avoid ambiguity. Everybody knows a namespacing
system from daily life, i.e. the naming of people in first name and family name
(surname). Another example is a network: each network device (workstation,
server, printer, ...) needs a unique name and address. Yet another example is
the directory structure of filesystems. The same filename can be used in
different directories, the files can be uniquely accessed via the pathnames.
Many programming languages use namespaces or contexts for identifiers. An
identifier defined in a namespace is associated with that namespace. This way,
the same identifier can be independently defined in multiple namespaces. (Like
the same filenames in different directories) Programming languages, which
support namespaces may have different rules that determine to which namespace an
identifier belongs.  Namespaces in Python are implemented as Python
dictionaries, this means that they are defined by a mapping from names, i.e. the
keys of the dictionary, to objects, i.e. the values. The user doesn't have to
know this to write a Python program and when using namespaces.  Some namespaces
in Python:
